this is a demonstration of how I made a
Ukrainian Easter Egg that I called an
embroidered egg this is an image of the
final egg so the first part is to divide
the egg I divide the egg starting at the
bottom and I divide it in half with one
vertical line going all the way around
the egg I then divide each half in half
with another vertical line once I've
done that I divide each quarter section
in half with a line going horizontally
through the fat part of the egg and now
I have an egg with eight parts I divide
each eight in half with a line starting
from the center and I have an egg now at
16 I turn it one quarter of the way and
I do the exact same thing that I just
did so starting from the center I draw a
line out to the side to one of the
original vertical lines and I do that
all the way around the egg on both sides
the next step is to divide from the
bottom there's their four diamonds I
divide one of the diamonds in half and I
look for the center where the where the
triangles intersect as my guide and I do
that all the way from the bottom up to
the top so once you've gone from the
bottom all the way to the top in each
section you'll have an egg with 48
equally sized triangles so the second
part is to add little eyes and what I
did was I found the diamond in the
center of the egg where there's four
sections and in each of the four
sections I did what looked to be like an
eye shape or teardrop shape and I did
that for each of the diamond sections in
the on the egg
once I did that all the way around the
egg I added two little lines on the
inside of each of the petals just like
this so the third part is do the inner
diamond and the stitching this is what
it's gonna look like in the end and I'm
gonna do that all the way around the egg
so I start by drawing a line that's
parallel to the line just to the right I
use that as my guide and that helps keep
everything look symmetrical and I do
that on the inside line as well and then
I curve that inner triangle line around
the petal and I fill it in now I do that
around all of the petals around the
whole egg and once it's done it looks
like this just fill in those last bits
and this is how it's gonna look and it's
ready now for some stitching I thought
this reminded me of my grandmother's
embroidery so some stitching would add a
bit of visual interest and I did that
around each of the the diamonds I didn't
do it through the center in part four
we're gonna dye the egg and remove the
wax so first I tried it in royal blue I
lowered the egg into the raw blue dye
but I thought that it looked a little
bit too late so I tried it for a minute
in the purple and that gave it a deeper
blue color and I lifted the egg off the
spoon with a piece of paper towel and I
dabbed it dry rather than rubbing
rubbing what Cotts the dye to come off
so the next section is to remove the wax
and you do that by holding the egg close
to the flame not in it and you can see
where there where it's white that's
where I've removed the wax already and
this is how it looks when it's done